Update sanitizer docs regarding SAFE_HEAP (#11674)
emscripten-core/emscripten: site/source/docs/debugging/Sanitizers.rst

-------------------------

By default, with Emscripten, dereferencing a null pointer does not immediately
cause a segmentation fault, unlike traditional platforms (0 is just a normal
address in a WebAssembly Memory or a JavaScript Typed Array).

In builds with ``ASSERTIONS`` enabled, a magic cookie stored at address 0 is
checked at the end of the program execution. That is, it will notify you if
anything wrote to that location while the prgram ran. This only detects writes,

> not reads, and does not help find where the bad write actually is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not reads, and does not help to find where the bad write actually is.
```

-------------------------

By default, with Emscripten, dereferencing a null pointer does not immediately
cause a segmentation fault, unlike traditional platforms, as 0 is just a normal

> address in a WebAssembly Memory. 0 is also a normal location in a

Reviewer 2: This could probably go either way, but I was surprised by the uppercase "Memory" here.

```suggestion
address in a WebAssembly memory. 0 is also a normal location in a
```

Author: Hmm, `Memory` with a capital is the name of the thing in the JS API, but yeah, maybe that's not reason enough to do it.

JavaScript Typed Array, which is an issue in the JavaScript alongside the
WebAssembly (runtime support code, JS library methods, ``EM_ASM/EM_JS``, etc.),
and also for the compiled code if you build with ``-s WASM=0``.

In builds with ``ASSERTIONS`` enabled, a magic cookie stored at address 0 is
checked at the end of the program execution. That is, it will notify you if

> anything wrote to that location while the prgram ran. This only detects writes,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
anything wrote to that location while the program ran. This only detects writes,
```

This prevents ASan from reporting the location of memory leaks, as well as
offer insight into where the memory for a heap-based memory error originated,
but may provide tremendous speed ups.

> Comparison to ``SAFE_HEAP``

Reviewer: Thanks, I like these explanations a lot!

One thing I feel is missing is that you mention JavScript-specific issues below (e.g., in particular, getting `undefined` out of a Typed Array) but it's not clear what kind of JavaScript this is in relation to / why is it relevant.

Is it about asm.js (and so only relevant for those who target it)? Or can it catch issues in user snippets?

Some additional note and/or examples might be helpful for the context.

Author: Very good point, thanks! Added notes now. This is relevant for all the JS, which means all the support code, and also the compiled code when using wasm2js.

Reviewer: > This is relevant for all the JS

Oh interesting, even things like EM_ASM / EM_JS snippets? Is this done by post-processing those with Acorn plugins or something like that?

Author: Yes, EM_ASM/EM_JS ends up with all the rest of the JS that the optimizer sees. The acorn-based optimizer then post-processes them.

Reviewer: That's pretty cool, I didn't know that actually :)

with sanitizers.

In general, ``SAFE_HEAP`` focuses on the specific pain points that come up when
targeting wasm. The sanitizers on the other hand focus on the specific pain points that are
involved with using languages like C/C++. Those two sets overlap, but are not
identical. Which you should use depends on which types of problems you are
looking for. You may want to test with all sanitizers and with ``SAFE_HEAP``
for maximal coverage, but you may need to build separately for each mode, since
not all sanitizers are compatible with each other, and not all of them are
compatible with ``SAFE_HEAP`` (because the sanitizers do some pretty radical
things!). You will get a compiler error if there is an issue with the flags you
passed. A reasonable set of separate test builds to do might be: ASan, UBsan,
and ``SAFE_HEAP``.

The specific things ``SAFE_HEAP`` errors on include:

* **NULL pointer (address 0) reads or writes**. As mentioned earlier, this is
  annoying in WebAssembly and JavaScript because 0 is just a normal address, so
  you don't get an immediate segfault, which can be confusing.
* **Unaligned reads or writes**. These work in WebAssembly, but on some platforms

>   an incorrectly-aligned read or write may be much slower, and with wasm2js

Reviewer: Note: this sounds like something that could / should be fixed on the `wasm2js` side by using `DataView` instead.

This way, unaligned access will probably still be slower on some platforms, like mentioned above, but, at least, will work just like in native Wasm.

In V8, DataView should be on par, or even faster than TypedArrays these days, at least according to improvements made back here: https://v8.dev/blog/dataview

Reviewer: (Although, I don't remember, is wasm2js the one that is supposed to produce valid asm.js? If so, then yeah, using DataView won't conform, but if it's meant to output general-purpose JS as a fallback, then it should.)

Author: Interesting, yeah, if DataView is fast enough then it could make sense. We should check in more browsers.

However it is bad for code size, which is a downside, so it would need to be optional.

(wasm2js is general JS, we are not focused on asm.js validation any more, so that's not an issue here.)

Reviewer: > However it is bad for code size, which is a downside, so it would need to be optional.

I guess, but if it doesn't handle some code correctly, the extra code size is probably worth it.

Author: As an option, definitely, yes.

  (``WASM=0``) it will be incorrect, as JavaScript Typed Arrays do not allow
  unaligned operations.
* **Reads or writes past the top of valid memory** as managed by ``sbrk()``, that is,
  memory that was not properly allocated by ``malloc()``. This is not specific
  to wasm, however, in JavaScript if the address is big enough to be outside the
  Typed Array, ``undefined`` is returned which can be very confusing, which is
  why this was added (in wasm at least an error is thrown; ``SAFE_HEAP`` still
  helps with wasm though, by checking the area between the top of ``sbrk()``'s
  memory and the end of the wasm Memory).

``SAFE_HEAP`` does these checks by instrumenting every single load and store.
That has the cost of slowing things down, but it does give a simple guarantee
of finding *all* such problems. It can also be done after compilation, on an
arbitrary wasm binary, while the sanitizers must be done when compiling from
source.

In comparison, UBSan can also find null pointer reads and writes. It does not
instrument every single load and store, however, as it is done during
compilation of the source code, so the checks are added where clang knows they

> are needed. This is much more efficient, but there is a risk of codegen and

Reviewer: Curious - is this a real risk / does it happen in the wild? If it does, is this usually considered a bug in Clang?

Author: It could be either a literal bug, or undefined behavior that is taken advantage of (probably more likely). Either way it could surprise users I think.

Reviewer: Huh, but isn't the point of UBSan to find that undefined behavior before it's taken advantage of? (I admit I don't know specifics / difference, just judging by naming)

Author: I'm not totally sure either about this. That's a good point and it could be the case.

> This prevents ASan from reporting the location of memory leaks, as well as
> offer insight into where the memory for a heap-based memory error originated,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This prevents ASan from reporting the location of memory leaks or offering
insight into where the memory for a heap-based memory error originated,
```
